Computer networking refers to interconnected computing devices that can exchange data and share resources with each other.


in aws a vpc service which is used to create an networking


Amazon VPC enables you to build a virtual network in the AWS cloud - no VPNs, hardware, or physical datacenters required. You can define your own network space, and control how your network and the Amazon EC2 resources inside your network are exposed to the Internet.


A VPC is a virtual network that closely like a traditional network that you are operate in your own data center


Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) enables you to launch AWS resources into a virtual network that you've defined. This virtual network closely resembles a traditional network that you'd operate in your own data center, with the benefits of using the scalable infrastructure of AWS.


***Subnet
A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. You launch AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances, into your subnets. You can connect a subnet to the internet, other VPCs, and your own data centers, and route traffic to and from your subnets using route tables.


IPv4 VPC CIDR blocks
The allowed block size is between a /16 netmask (65,536 IP addresses) and /28 netmask (16 IP addresses).

A subnet mask is another netmask within used to further divide the network.

A bastion host is a server whose purpose is to provide access to a private network from an external network, such as the Internet.
it is possible to connect to an instance in a private subnet from an instance in a public subnet; otherwise known as a bastion host.
Once the bastion host is up and running, you can use it to securely access instances in the private subnet by connecting to the bastion host using SSH and then using SSH tunneling or a proxy server to connect to the private instances.



So NAT means Network Address Translation, and these NAT instances allow EC2 instances in private subnets to connect to the internet.
To do so, the NAT instance must be launched in a public subnet and then will connect the public subnet and the private subnets.
In NAT the instances in a private subnet can connect to services outside your VPC but external services cannot initiate a connection with those instances.
By using one NAT gateway we can provide internet to multiple private subnets.


A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them privately. Instances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network. You can create a VPC peering connection between your own VPCs, with a VPC in another AWS account, or with a VPC in a different AWS Region.


A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that determine where network traffic from your subnet or gateway is directed.
This allows you to control the routing of traffic between subnets and can help to improve network security.
Route Tables control the routing of traffic within a VPC.
The Route Table controls the routing of traffic within the VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) and determines where traffic is sent based on its destination IP address. 
The Route Table contains a set of routes that determine where traffic is sent based on its destination IP address.
You can configure the routes in a Route Table to send traffic to other subnets in the same VPC.
If we need to keep a NAT gateway in a public subnet then we need to send internet private subnet change the routtable of private subnet.


((((Yes, if a resource in a public subnet needs to access a resource in a private subnet within the same VPC, you need to configure both the Network Access Control Lists (NACLs) and route tables of the public subnet.


If a resource in a private subnet needs to access a resource in a public subnet within the same VPC, you typically do not need to modify the Network Access Control Lists (NACLs) or route tables of the public subnet.

By default, all resources in a private subnet can communicate with resources in the same VPC, including resources in public subnets, using their private IP addresses. This is because AWS automatically creates local routes within the route tables of each subnet, which allows communication between resources within the same VPC.))))


And then the outbound is automatically going to be accepted at the security group level.

This is because the security group is stateful. That means whatever is accepted in can go also out.

Well the NACL is not stateful, it is stateless,and therefore, because it is stateless

then the NACL outbound rules are going to be evaluated.

A network access control list (NACL) is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets
The NACL controls traffic at the subnet level and can be used to allow or deny traffic to and from subnets based on rules that you define.
To allow traffic from the public subnet to the private subnet, you need to ensure that the NACLs of both the subnets allow the appropriate inbound and outbound traffic.




What is site-to-site VPN in AWS?
AWS Site-to-Site VPN is a fully-managed service that creates a secure connection between your data center or branch office and your AWS resources using IP Security (IPSec) tunnels



What are hosted zones?
A hosted zone is a container for records, and records contain information about how you want to route traffic for a specific domain, such as example.com, and its subdomains (acme.example.com, zenith.example.com). A hosted zone and the corresponding domain have the same name.



Traffic Mirroring is an Amazon VPC feature that you can use to copy network traffic from an elastic network interface of type interface 



What is Eni used for AWS?
AWS Network Interface or Elastic Network Interfaces (AWS ENIs) are virtual network cards attached to EC2 instances that help facilitate network connectivity for instances. Having two or more of AWS Network Interface connected to an instance permits it to communicate on two separate subnets



VPN connection: A secure connection between your on-premises equipment and your VPCs.

VPN tunnel: An encrypted way where data can pass from the customer network to or from AWS.

Each VPN connection includes two VPN tunnels which you can simultaneously use for high availability.

Customer gateway: An AWS resource which provides information to AWS about your customer gateway device.

Customer gateway device: A physical device or software application on your side of the Site-to-Site VPN connection.

Target gateway: A generic term for the VPN endpoint on the Amazon side of the Site-to-Site VPN connection.

Virtual private gateway: A virtual private gateway is the VPN endpoint on the Amazon side of your Site-to-Site VPN connection that can be attached to a single VPC.


Transit gateway: A transit hub that can be used to interconnect multiple VPCs and on-premises networks, and as a VPN endpoint for the Amazon side of the Site-to-Site VPN connection.

Transit Gateway is a fully managed service that allows you to connect VPCs and on-premises networks together.

or 

AWS Transit Gateway connects your Amazon Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs) and on-premises networks through a central hub


A VPC endpoint allows you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services

A bastion host is a server whose purpose is to provide access to a private network from an external network, such as the Internet